source/guides/first-mesh.rst, before:

.. _first-mesh-walkthrough:

======================
First Mesh Walkthrough
======================
In this walkthrough, we will go through the process of creating your first dripline mesh.
A "mesh" refers to an AMQP message broker and all of the services which are connected to it.
In most cases, this is the same as the controls for a particular system.

Here we will create a very simple mesh, which includes:

#. a rabbitmq broker for communication (this is a 3rd party application)
#. a trivial service, which can be thought of as representing a simple instrument
#. a very simple PostgreSQL database for storing values (this is a 3rd party application)
#. a logging service, to store our fake sensor data in the database
#. a grafana instance, a database dashboarding tool (this is a 3rd party application)

We will try to call attention to places where decisions made here are for convenience of example, vs decisions recommended practice.

Our first big decision comes before we get started and is a question of how we will deploy and manage our software.
There is more discussion in the section on :ref:`process management<process-management>`.
In this example, we will use ``docker-compose`` to define and deploy our collection of applications.
If you're not familiar with compose, please review the `official documentation <https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/>`_ and work through the examples there.
You should also be familiar with `exec <https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/exec/>`_ and `logs <https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/logs/>`_ subcommands, all of these will be useful throughout this guide.

If you are working through this walkthrough, you're strongly encouraged to create a directory and write all of the files yourself, exploring the options or configurable parameters, etc.
For reference, you can find a completed set of files for this example in the `github repo for this documentation <https://github.com/driplineorg/controls-guide/tree/master/examples/first-mesh>`_.

Finally, before we dig in, a request:

* Where possible, this documentation is directly importing file contents from the working example files. If something looks wrong or doesn't match, it is possible that the ``literalinclude`` statements were not updated after the example was updated, please let us know by posting an issue (or even better, for the repo and send us a PR with the correction; documentation is a group effort).

* Throughout this and all examples, we have tried to pin versions (specifically container image versions) so that the examples are reproducible over time. An excellent exercise would be to explore cases where there are newer versions and the capabilities those may enable (and again, send us a PR if you find something helpful).

Configure the message broker
----------------------------
The core to any dripline mesh is the AMQP message broker.
In principle, dripline-compliant messages could be sent over any transport protocol you want, but in practice all available libraries are written for, and tested with AMQP (specifically RabbitMQ), so you should probably just use that.
We'll set the username and password for the default role in RabbitMQ, to be used by all of our services.
In principle, RabbitMQ provides interesting and sophisticated role-based access controls features which could be leveraged, but this is not currently done.
This is done with the following service block in the docker-compose file:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 3-9
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 3

In order for services to connect to the broker, they will need to authenticate using the username and password indicated above.
The dripline libraries typically retrieve this information from an authentications file, we'll go ahead and create that now:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/authentications.json
   :language: json
   :caption: authentications.json
   :name: authentications-file
   :linenos:


Add a dripline service
----------------------
Now that we have a broker running, we will go ahead and create our first dripline service.
We won't do anythng fancy, we'll use the built-in ``KeyValueStore`` class to create some endpoints which simply remember a value and report it back.
In a more realistic use-case, the remembered value may be replaced by an interaction with some hardware, but this is nice because it runs without requiring equipment, and still demonstrates the interactions between the software components.


The compose entry
+++++++++++++++++

To create our dripline service, we add another object to the docker-compose definition file (under the ``services:`` block) that looks like the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 11-21
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 11

Here we're running a container with two files mounted in, the authentications file from the previous section, and a runtime configuration file to be discussed next.
We also specify the command to run in the container (review the docker compose documentation linked above if you need help understanding the syntax).

The runtime configuration file
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The configuration file is used to define the classes which need to be created to do the work of the service.
The file lists those, including the configurable parameters that are passed to the ``__init__`` functions for those classes.
If you're ever not sure what configurable parameters a class takes, you can check that function definition in the class and its base classes.

There are several important patterns for a runtime configuration file:

#. The description of classes goes in a section of the yaml file named ``runtime-config``
#. Every class is a dictionary block, with the required keys ``name`` (uniquely naming the instance) and ``module`` (naming the class)
#. A class may include a ``module_path`` key, which indicates the path to a python source file implementing that class
#. The top-level of the runtime-config should have a class which is either a ``Service`` or a class derived from it, this class is responsible for connecting to AMQP and sending and receiving dripline messsages.
#. The ``Service`` may have an ``endpoints`` key which contains a list of dictionary blocks defining other class instances

In this case, our key-value storage service has a vanilla ``Service`` for consuming messages, and three endpoints for storing values.
Taking the "peaches" endpoint as an example, we see that we're creating an instance of the ``KeyValueStore`` class and "peaches" is its name.
We're passing in an ``initial_value`` (defined in the ``KeyValueStore`` class itself), ``get_on_set``, ``log_on_set``, and ``log_interval`` (from the ``Entity`` base class), and ``calibration`` (from the ``Endpoint`` base class inherited through ``Entity``).
Any other arguments those classes take in their ``__init__`` are being left at the default values.
The full configuration looks like:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/key-value-store.yaml
   :caption: key-value-store.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:


Running and interacting
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Having create the runtime configuration and added it to the compose environment, bring the the compose environment up to launch your containers.
Probably the best option is to bring it up in daemon mode (with ``-d``), but that's up to you; I typically launch as a daemon, then use the ``logs`` subcommand with ``-f`` to follow the activity of any service I'm actively trying to debug.
If you do this, you should see new output every 10 seconds when the peaches endpoints logs a new value (per the configured ``log_interval`` value).

.. note::
  The docker-compose utility does not do sophisticated lifecycle management.
  Of particular relevance here, the ``depends_on`` label only indicates the order that containers should be started, it does not wait for anythign to be "ready" before moving on.
  It is very common that, when starting from a new or fully stopped system, RabbitMQ takes some time to start and other services fail to connect to it.
  The simplest solution is to simply bring everything up again, you could instead try to add sleep or automatic restart statements to deal with this automatically, but that comes with its own subtleties and is probably an indication that you should consider more sophisticated orchestration (such as k8s).

With that working, use the ``exec`` subcommand to run a second bash shell in the key-value-store container.
From here, we'll use the command line interface to interact with our new service (note that you can use the ``--help`` flag with any of these tools to find out about the full set of available options).

Use the ``dl-mon`` command (from ``dripline-cpp`` to watch the logs).
The full command could be ``dl-mon --auth-file /root/authentications.json -b rabbit-broker -a sensor_value.#``.
You could similarly bind to ``heartbeat.#`` to see the regular heartbeat messages from all running services (for now we just have the one).

Use the ``dl-agent`` command to interact with an endpoint.
First, we'll check the current value of the peaches endpoing, with ``dl-agent --auth-file /root/authentications.json -b rabbit-broker get peaches``.
You should see a verbose output that includes a payload section with the current value.
Now try to use the ``set`` subcommand to change the value and get it again, you should see your new value.
You should also see that a new value gets logged whenever you use ``set``, and that time-based logs have your newly assinged value.


Add historical data storage
---------------------------

This has all been nice for allowing us to interact with the key-value-store service.
Hopefully you can see that instead of the trivial implementations of the ``on_get`` and ``on_set`` methods in the ``KeyValueStore`` class, we could implement those methods with arbitrarily complex logic and still interact with them in the same way.
For this tutorial however, we set aside the question of implementing more complex interactions with hardware and focus back on software issues.
In particular, as built we have a way to find out what the current value of peaches is, but not what it has been.
Normally we want to catch the value logs produced and record them in a database or other long-term storage system so that they can be referenced or processed later.

The conceptual details of the logging system are discussed in the :ref:`logging system <logging-data>` section so here we jump ahead with spinning it up.
Currently dripline includes an implementation for logging data into a single table (or view) in a postgreSQL database.
In the rest of this section we will provision a database and a dripline service to record data into it.

.. note::
  The database structure here is intended to serve as a minimal example and is not considered suitable for "production" or even "research and development" usage.
  It maximizes simplicity at the expense of all else.

Create the database
+++++++++++++++++++

For our database, we will use the community supported postgres database container; you can find a description of the use of this container in `the official documentation, hosted with the container <https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres>`_.
We create a single database with a single table for storing our endpoint values in a subdirectory next to our ``docker-compose.yaml`` file (and shortly will be mounting that directory into the container).
The database setup file looks like:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/postgres_init.d/10_setup.sql
   :caption: postgres_init.d/10_setup.sql
   :language: psql
   :linenos:

We then add it to our compose file as another service.
In the minimal case that looks like the following block, in a more production-like environment, the database's storage location would need to be persistanat so that data are not lost when the container stops.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 38-44
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 38

Create the data logging service
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now that we have a database, we will create the data logging service to bind to alert messages with sensor data and insert that into the database.
The structure is similar to other services described above, we define the dripline objects required and set the configurable parameters in a single yaml file below.
Per usual, the description of these parameters are included with the classes themselves.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/sensor-logger.yaml
   :caption: sensor-logger.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:

Again, following the same pattern as before, we add the dripline service to execute this configuration file to the compose configuration:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 52-63
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 52

Having added these two compose services (``postgres`` and ``sensor-logger``), data will now be stored in the database.
You can bring the system up as before and watch the ``sensor-logger`` console logs to see data received and being inserted, or connect to the ``postgres`` service and use the ``psql`` command line tool to explore the database content and see new rows populating (you're enouraged to go try both of these on your own, but we'll move along).

Data visualization
++++++++++++++++++

Having a database full of values is great, but in most cases you will also want some interactive way to see and explore the data.
In principle we could build such a tool ourselves, but this is another place where we will leverage the freely available tools from the open source community; specifically we add an instance of `grafana <https://grafana.com>`_ (again per usual, you can get lots of details from the official website, or from the `main docker hub page <https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/grafana/>`_ related to the container we will add.

Similar to postgres, we can provide grafana with configuration files which set its initial configuration and provision capabilities (including the details for how to connect to the database).
Feel free to explore those files or the description provided in the official documentation, here we proceed with the compose service

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 45-50
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 45

Note that this configuration binds port 3000 in the container to the same port number on your host machine.
This will allow us to browse to ``http://localhost:3000`` to view the grafana inteface, you may need to make adjustments based port availability or the networking details of your particular system.
Having added all of these services and brought up the full compose environment, that link should present a login which accepts the default (insecure) login details (admin/admin).
Once connected, you can select the "Explore" option from the left navigation bar to bring up an interactive page for looking at data contents.
If you select the ``sensor_data`` data source from the drop-down menu at the top, grafana will help you build a SQL query.
In the line marked ``WHERE`` select the ``+`` to add an expression, click and replace the left ``value`` with ``sensor_name`` (the name of one of the columns in our table) and the right ``value`` with ``'peaches'`` to view the time series of our peaches data.
The full configuration and rendering should look something like

.. image:: first-mesh-grafana-screenshot.png

Feel free to explore the grafana UI, you can change the time interval or make various other changes.
If you set new values to peaches, you'll see the values in the plot change.
Grafana also supports saving what it calls dashboards, which render one or more query.
These can be saved and even added to its provisioning system (where they can be loaded automatically and even version controlled).
Those capabilities are documented by grafana and are outside the scope of this guide.

Commit message:

Fixed some issues with the first mesh text

source/guides/first-mesh.rst, after:

.. _first-mesh-walkthrough:

======================
First Mesh Walkthrough
======================
In this walkthrough, we will go through the process of creating your first dripline mesh.
A "mesh" refers to an AMQP message broker and all of the services which are connected to it.
In most cases, this is the same as the controls for a particular system.

Here we will create a very simple mesh, which includes:

#. a rabbitmq broker for communication (this is a 3rd party application)
#. a trivial service, which can be thought of as representing a simple instrument
#. a very simple PostgreSQL database for storing values (this is a 3rd party application)
#. a logging service, to store our fake sensor data in the database
#. a grafana instance, a database dashboarding tool (this is a 3rd party application)

We will try to call attention to places where decisions made here are for convenience of example, vs decisions recommended practice.

.. note::
  If you are working through this walkthrough, you're strongly encouraged to create a directory and write all of the files yourself, exploring the options or configurable parameters, etc.
  For reference, you can find a completed set of files for this example in the `github repo for this documentation <https://github.com/driplineorg/controls-guide/tree/master/examples/first-mesh>`_.

Our first big decision comes before we get started and is a question of how we will deploy and manage our software.
There is more discussion in the section on :ref:`process management<process-management>`.
In this example, we will use ``docker-compose`` to define and deploy our collection of applications.
If you're not familiar with compose, please review the `official documentation <https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/>`_ and work through the examples there.
You should also be familiar with `exec <https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/exec/>`_ and `logs <https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/logs/>`_ subcommands, all of these will be useful throughout this guide.

Finally, before we dig in, a request:

* If something looks wrong or isn't working, please let us know by posting an issue (or even better, for the repo and send us a PR with the correction; documentation is a group effort).

* Throughout this and all examples, we have tried to pin versions (specifically container image versions) so that the examples are reproducible over time. An excellent exercise would be to explore cases where there are newer versions and the capabilities those may enable (and again, send us a PR if you find something helpful).

Configure the message broker
----------------------------
The core to any dripline mesh is the AMQP message broker.
In principle, dripline-compliant messages could be sent over any transport protocol you want, but in practice all available libraries are written for, and tested with AMQP (specifically RabbitMQ), so you should probably just use that.
We'll set the username and password for the default role in RabbitMQ, to be used by all of our services.
In principle, RabbitMQ provides interesting and sophisticated role-based access controls features which could be leveraged, but this is not currently done.
This is done with the following service block in the docker-compose file:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 3-9
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 3

In order for services to connect to the broker, they will need to authenticate using the username and password indicated above.
The dripline libraries typically retrieve this information from an authentications file, we'll go ahead and create that now:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/authentications.json
   :language: json
   :caption: authentications.json
   :name: authentications-file
   :linenos:


Add a dripline service
----------------------
Now that we have a broker running, we will go ahead and create our first dripline service.
We won't do anythng fancy, we'll use the built-in ``KeyValueStore`` class to create some endpoints which simply remember a value and report it back.
In a more realistic use-case, the remembered value may be replaced by an interaction with some hardware, but this is nice because it runs without requiring equipment, and still demonstrates the interactions between the software components.


The compose entry
+++++++++++++++++

To create our dripline service, we add another object to the docker-compose definition file (under the ``services:`` block) that looks like the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 11-21
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 11

Here we're running a container with two files mounted in, the authentications file from the previous section, and a runtime configuration file to be discussed next.
We also specify the command to run in the container (review the docker compose documentation linked above if you need help understanding the syntax).

The runtime configuration file
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The configuration file is used to define the classes which need to be created to do the work of the service.
The file lists those, including the configurable parameters that are passed to the ``__init__`` functions for those classes.
If you're ever not sure what configurable parameters a class takes, you can check that function definition in the class and its base classes.

There are several important patterns for a runtime configuration file:

#. The description of classes goes in a section of the yaml file named ``runtime-config``
#. Every class is a dictionary block, with the required keys ``name`` (uniquely naming the instance) and ``module`` (naming the class)
#. A class may include a ``module_path`` key, which indicates the path to a python source file implementing that class
#. The top-level of the runtime-config should have a class which is either a ``Service`` or a class derived from it, this class is responsible for connecting to AMQP and sending and receiving dripline messsages.
#. The ``Service`` may have an ``endpoints`` key which contains a list of dictionary blocks defining other class instances

In this case, our key-value storage service has a vanilla ``Service`` for consuming messages, and three endpoints for storing values.
Taking the "peaches" endpoint as an example, we see that we're creating an instance of the ``KeyValueStore`` class and "peaches" is its name.
We're passing in an ``initial_value`` (defined in the ``KeyValueStore`` class itself), ``get_on_set``, ``log_on_set``, and ``log_interval`` (from the ``Entity`` base class), and ``calibration`` (from the ``Endpoint`` base class inherited through ``Entity``).
Any other arguments those classes take in their ``__init__`` are being left at the default values.
The full configuration looks like:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/key-value-store.yaml
   :caption: key-value-store.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:


Running and interacting
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Having create the runtime configuration and added it to the compose environment, bring the the compose environment up to launch your containers.
Probably the best option is to bring it up in daemon mode (with ``-d``), but that's up to you; I typically launch as a daemon, then use the ``logs`` subcommand with ``-f`` to follow the activity of any service I'm actively trying to debug.
If you do this, you should see new output every 10 seconds when the peaches endpoints logs a new value (per the configured ``log_interval`` value).

.. note::
  The docker-compose utility does not do sophisticated lifecycle management.
  Of particular relevance here, the ``depends_on`` label only indicates the order that containers should be started, it does not wait for anythign to be "ready" before moving on.
  It is very common that, when starting from a new or fully stopped system, RabbitMQ takes some time to start and other services fail to connect to it.
  The simplest solution is to simply bring everything up again, you could instead try to add sleep or automatic restart statements to deal with this automatically, but that comes with its own subtleties and is probably an indication that you should consider more sophisticated orchestration (such as k8s).

With that working, use the ``exec`` subcommand to run a second bash shell in the key-value-store container.
From here, we'll use the command line interface to interact with our new service (note that you can use the ``--help`` flag with any of these tools to find out about the full set of available options).

Use the ``dl-mon`` command (from ``dripline-cpp`` to watch the logs).
The full command could be ``dl-mon --auth-file /root/authentications.json -b rabbit-broker -a sensor_value.#``.
You could similarly bind to ``heartbeat.#`` to see the regular heartbeat messages from all running services (for now we just have the one).

Use the ``dl-agent`` command to interact with an endpoint.
First, we'll check the current value of the peaches endpoing, with ``dl-agent --auth-file /root/authentications.json -b rabbit-broker get peaches``.
You should see a verbose output that includes a payload section with the current value.
Now try to use the ``set`` subcommand to change the value and get it again, you should see your new value.
You should also see that a new value gets logged whenever you use ``set``, and that time-based logs have your newly assinged value.


Add historical data storage
---------------------------

This has all been nice for allowing us to interact with the key-value-store service.
Hopefully you can see that instead of the trivial implementations of the ``on_get`` and ``on_set`` methods in the ``KeyValueStore`` class, we could implement those methods with arbitrarily complex logic and still interact with them in the same way.
For this tutorial however, we set aside the question of implementing more complex interactions with hardware and focus back on software issues.
In particular, as built we have a way to find out what the current value of peaches is, but not what it has been.
Normally we want to catch the value logs produced and record them in a database or other long-term storage system so that they can be referenced or processed later.

The conceptual details of the logging system are discussed in the :ref:`logging system <logging-data>` section so here we jump ahead with spinning it up.
Currently dripline includes an implementation for logging data into a single table (or view) in a postgreSQL database.
In the rest of this section we will provision a database and a dripline service to record data into it.

.. note::
  The database structure here is intended to serve as a minimal example and is not considered suitable for "production" or even "research and development" usage.
  It maximizes simplicity at the expense of all else.

Create the database
+++++++++++++++++++

For our database, we will use the community supported postgres database container; you can find a description of the use of this container in `the official documentation, hosted with the container <https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres>`_.
We create a single database with a single table for storing our endpoint values in a subdirectory next to our ``docker-compose.yaml`` file (and shortly will be mounting that directory into the container).
You will need to add a database-setup file in a subdirectory called `postgres_init.d`.  The database setup file looks like:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/postgres_init.d/10_setup.sql
   :caption: postgres_init.d/10_setup.sql
   :language: psql
   :linenos:

We then add the postgres container to our compose file as another service.
In the minimal case that looks like the following block, in a more production-like environment, the database's storage location would need to be persistanat so that data are not lost when the container stops.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 38-44
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 38

Create the data logging service
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now that we have a database, we will create the data logging service to bind to alert messages with sensor data and insert that into the database.
The structure is similar to other services described above, we define the dripline objects required and set the configurable parameters in a single yaml file below.
Per usual, the description of these parameters are included with the classes themselves.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/sensor-logger.yaml
   :caption: sensor-logger.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:

Again, following the same pattern as before, we add the dripline service to execute this configuration file to the compose configuration:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 52-63
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 52

Having added these two compose services (``postgres`` and ``sensor-logger``), data will now be stored in the database.
You can bring the system up as before and watch the ``sensor-logger`` console logs to see data received and being inserted, or connect to the ``postgres`` service and use the ``psql`` command line tool to explore the database content and see new rows populating (you're enouraged to go try both of these on your own, but we'll move along).

Data visualization
++++++++++++++++++

Having a database full of values is great, but in most cases you will also want some interactive way to see and explore the data.
In principle we could build such a tool ourselves, but this is another place where we will leverage the freely available tools from the open source community; specifically we add an instance of `grafana <https://grafana.com>`_.  You can get lots of details from the official website, or from the `main docker hub page <https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/grafana/>`_ related to the container we will add.

Grafana needs input on how to configure itself and how to connect to the database.  Start by creating a subdirectory in your walkthrough location for grafana called `grafana.d`.
Copy the configuration file provided with the walkthrough to the new directory; it's located at `examples/first-mesh/grafana.d/grafana.ini` in the controls_guide repository or `here <https://github.com/driplineorg/controls-guide/blob/main/examples/first-mesh/grafana.d/grafana.ini>`_ on GitHub. 
To connect to the database, we add a YAML configuration file at `grafana.d/provisioning/datasources/postgres.yaml`:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/grafana.d/provisioning/datasources/posgres.yaml
   :caption: grafana.d/provisioning/datasources/postgres.yaml
   :languague: yaml
   :linenos:

Now we proceed with the compose service:

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/first-mesh/docker-compose.yaml
   :caption: docker-compose.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :lines: 45-50
   :linenos:
   :lineno-start: 45

Note that this configuration binds port 3000 in the container to the same port number on your host machine.
This will allow us to browse to ``http://localhost:3000`` to view the grafana inteface, you may need to make adjustments based port availability or the networking details of your particular system.
Having added all of these services and brought up the full compose environment, that link should present a login which accepts the default (insecure) login details (admin/admin).
Once connected, you can select the "Explore" option from the left navigation bar to bring up an interactive page for looking at data contents.
If you select the ``sensor_data`` data source from the drop-down menu at the top, grafana will help you build a SQL query.
In the line marked ``WHERE`` select the ``+`` to add an expression, click and replace the left ``value`` with ``sensor_name`` (the name of one of the columns in our table) and the right ``value`` with ``'peaches'`` to view the time series of our peaches data.
The full configuration and rendering should look something like

.. image:: first-mesh-grafana-screenshot.png

Feel free to explore the grafana UI, you can change the time interval or make various other changes.
If you set new values to peaches, you'll see the values in the plot change.
Grafana also supports saving what it calls dashboards, which render one or more query.
These can be saved and even added to its provisioning system (where they can be loaded automatically and even version controlled).
Those capabilities are documented by grafana and are outside the scope of this guide.
